README.md, before:

# CAMeLBERT: A collection of pre-trained models for Arabic NLP tasks:

This repo contains code for the experiments presented in our paper: [The Interplay of Variant, Size, and Task Type in Arabic Pre-trained Language Models](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2103.06678.pdf).

## Requirements:

This code was written for python>=3.7, pytorch 1.5.1, and transformers 3.1.0. You will also need few additional packages. Here's how you can set up the environment using conda (assuming you have conda and cuda installed):

```bash
git clone https://github.com/CAMeL-Lab/CAMeLBERT.git
cd CAMeLBERT

conda create -n CAMeLBERT python=3.7
conda activate CAMeLBERT

pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## CAMeLBERT:

Our eight CAMeLBERT models are available on Hugging Face's [model hub](https://huggingface.co/CAMeL-Lab) along with their detailed descriptions. Note: to download our models as described in the model hub, you would need transformers>=3.5.0. Otherwise, you could download the models manually.

## Fine-tuning Experiments:

All fine-tuned models can be found [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/15feD46cPcRBybdUUKKrzR9zTxj2QBJ5w?usp=sharing).

## Text Classification:

### Sentiment Analysis:

For the sentiment analysis experiments, we combined four datasets: 1) [ArSAS](http://lrec-conf.org/workshops/lrec2018/W30/pdf/22_W30.pdf); 2) [ASTD](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D15-1299.pdf); 3) [SemEval-2017 4A](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/S17-2088.pdf); 4) [ArSenTD](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1906.01830.pdf).</br>
The models were fine-tuned on ArSenTD and the train splits of ArSAS, ASTD, and SemEval-2017. We then evaluate all the checkpoints on 
a single dev split from ArSAS, ASTD, and SemEval-2017 and pick the best checkpoint to report the results on the test splits of ArSAS, ASTD, and SemEval-2017 repsectively. To run the fine-tuning:

```bash
export DATA_DIR=/path/to/data
export TASK_NAME=arabic_sentiment

python run_text_classification.py \
  --model_type bert \
  --model_name_or_path /path/to/pretrained_model/ \ # Or huggingface model id 
  --task_name $TASK_NAME \
  --do_train \
  --do_eval \
  --eval_all_checkpoints \
  --save_steps 500 \
  --data_dir $DATA_DIR \
  --max_seq_length 128 \
  --per_gpu_train_batch_size 32 \
  --per_gpu_eval_batch_size 32 \
  --learning_rate 3e-5 \
  --num_train_epochs 3.0 \
  --overwrite_output_dir \
  --overwrite_cache \
  --output_dir /path/to/output_dir \
  --seed 12345
```

### Dialect Identification:

For the dialect identification experiments, we fine-tuned the models on four different dialect identification datasets: 1) [MADAR Corpus 26](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/C18-1113.pdf); 2) [MADAR Corpus 6](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/C18-1113.pdf); 3) [MADAR Twitter-5](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W19-4622.pdf); 4) [NADI Country-level](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/2020.wanlp-1.9.pdf). We fine-tuned the models across the four datasets and we pick the best checkpoints on the dev sets to report results on the test sets. To run the fine-tuning:


```bash
export DATA_DIR=/path/to/data
export TASK_NAME=arabic_did_madar_26 # or arabic_did_madar_6, arabic_did_madar_twitter, arabic_did_nadi_country

python run_text_classification.py \
  --model_type bert \
  --model_name_or_path /path/to/pretrained_model/ \ # Or huggingface model id
  --task_name $TASK_NAME \
  --do_train \
  --do_eval \
  --eval_all_checkpoints \
  --save_steps 500 \
  --data_dir $DATA_DIR \
  --max_seq_length 128 \
  --per_gpu_train_batch_size 32 \
  --per_gpu_eval_batch_size 32 \
  --learning_rate 3e-5 \
  --num_train_epochs 10.0 \
  --overwrite_output_dir \
  --overwrite_cache \
  --output_dir /path/to/output_dir \
  --seed 12345
```

### Poetry Classification:

For the poetry classification experiments, we fine-tuned the models on the [APCD](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1905.05700.pdf) dataset. For each model, we pick the best checkpoint based on the dev set to report results on the test set. To run the fine-tuning:

```bash
export DATA_DIR=/path/to/data
export TASK_NAME=arabic_poetry

python run_text_classification.py \
  --model_type bert \
  --model_name_or_path /path/to/pretrained_model/ \ # Or huggingface model id
  --task_name $TASK_NAME \
  --do_train \
  --do_eval \
  --eval_all_checkpoints \
  --save_steps 5000 \
  --data_dir $DATA_DIR \
  --max_seq_length 128 \
  --per_gpu_train_batch_size 32 \
  --per_gpu_eval_batch_size 32 \
  --learning_rate 3e-5 \
  --num_train_epochs 3.0 \
  --overwrite_output_dir \
  --overwrite_cache \
  --output_dir /path/to/output_dir \
  --seed 12345
```

Bash scripts to run text-classification fine-tuning and evaluation can be found in `text-classification/scripts/`.


## Token Classification:

### NER:

For the NER experiments, we used the [ANERCorp](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-540-70939-8_13) dataset and followed the splits defined by [Obeid et al., 2020](https://camel.abudhabi.nyu.edu/anercorp/).
The dataset doesn't have a dev split, so we fine-tune the models on the train split and evaluate the last checkpoint on the test split.
To run the fine-tuning:


```bash
export DATA_DIR=/path/to/data                 # Should contain train/dev/test/labels files
export MAX_LENGTH=512
export BERT_MODEL=/path/to/pretrained_model/  # Or huggingface model id
export OUTPUT_DIR=/path/to/output_dir
export BATCH_SIZE=32
export NUM_EPOCHS=3
export SAVE_STEPS=750
export SEED=12345

 python run_token_classification.py \
  --data_dir $DATA_DIR \
  --labels $DATA_DIR/labels.txt \
  --model_name_or_path $BERT_MODEL \
  --output_dir $OUTPUT_DIR \
  --max_seq_length  $MAX_LENGTH \
  --num_train_epochs $NUM_EPOCHS \
  --per_device_train_batch_size $BATCH_SIZE \
  --save_steps $SAVE_STEPS \
  --seed $SEED \
  --overwrite_output_dir \
  --overwrite_cache \
  --do_train \
  --do_predict
```

### POS Tagging:

For the POS tagging experiments, we fine-tuned the models on three different datasets:<br/>

1. Penn Arabic Treebank ([PATB](https://www.ldc.upenn.edu/sites/www.ldc.upenn.edu/files/nemlar2004-penn-arabic-treebank.pdf)): in MSA and has 32 POS tags
2. Egyptian Arabic Treebank ([ARZATB](https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/LDC2018T23)): in EGY and has 33 POS tags
3. [GUMAR](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/L18-1607.pdf) corpus: in GLF and includes 35 POS tags

We used the same hyperparameters for the 3 datasets and report results on the test sets by using the best checkpoints on the dev sets. To run the fine-tuning:

```bash
export DATA_DIR=/path/to/data                 # Should contain train/dev/test/labels files
export MAX_LENGTH=512
export BERT_MODEL=/path/to/pretrained_model/  # Or huggingface model id
export OUTPUT_DIR=/path/to/output_dir
export BATCH_SIZE=32
export NUM_EPOCHS=10
export SAVE_STEPS=500
export SEED=12345

python run_token_classification.py \
  --data_dir $DATA_DIR \
  --labels $DATA_DIR/labels.txt \
  --model_name_or_path $BERT_MODEL \
  --output_dir $OUTPUT_DIR \
  --max_seq_length  $MAX_LENGTH \
  --num_train_epochs $NUM_EPOCHS \
  --per_device_train_batch_size $BATCH_SIZE \
  --save_steps $SAVE_STEPS \
  --seed $SEED \
  --overwrite_output_dir \
  --overwrite_cache \
  --do_train \
  --do_eval
```

Bash scripts to run token-classification fine-tuning and evaluation can be found in `token-classification/scripts/`.

## Citation:

If you find any of the CAMeLBERT or the fine-tuned models useful in your work, please cite [our paper](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2103.06678.pdf):
```bibtex
@inproceedings{inoue-etal-2021-interplay,
    title = "The Interplay of Variant, Size, and Task Type in {A}rabic Pre-trained Language Models",
    author = "Inoue, Go  and
      Alhafni, Bashar  and
      Baimukan, Nurpeiis  and
      Bouamor, Houda  and
      Habash, Nizar",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the Sixth Arabic Natural Language Processing Workshop",
    month = apr,
    year = "2021",
    address = "Kyiv, Ukraine (Online)",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    abstract = "In this paper, we explore the effects of language variants, data sizes, and fine-tuning task types in Arabic pre-trained language models. To do so, we build three pre-trained language models across three variants of Arabic: Modern Standard Arabic (MSA), dialectal Arabic, and classical Arabic, in addition to a fourth language model which is pre-trained on a mix of the three. We also examine the importance of pre-training data size by building additional models that are pre-trained on a scaled-down set of the MSA variant. We compare our different models to each other, as well as to eight publicly available models by fine-tuning them on five NLP tasks spanning 12 datasets. Our results suggest that the variant proximity of pre-training data to fine-tuning data is more important than the pre-training data size. We exploit this insight in defining an optimized system selection model for the studied tasks.",
}
```

Commit message:

Add a description of frequency lists dataset

README.md, after:

# CAMeLBERT: A collection of pre-trained models for Arabic NLP tasks:

This repo contains code for the experiments presented in our paper: [The Interplay of Variant, Size, and Task Type in Arabic Pre-trained Language Models](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2103.06678.pdf).

## Requirements:

This code was written for python>=3.7, pytorch 1.5.1, and transformers 3.1.0. You will also need few additional packages. Here's how you can set up the environment using conda (assuming you have conda and cuda installed):

```bash
git clone https://github.com/CAMeL-Lab/CAMeLBERT.git
cd CAMeLBERT

conda create -n CAMeLBERT python=3.7
conda activate CAMeLBERT

pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## CAMeLBERT:

Our eight CAMeLBERT models are available on Hugging Face's [model hub](https://huggingface.co/CAMeL-Lab) along with their detailed descriptions. Note: to download our models as described in the model hub, you would need transformers>=3.5.0. Otherwise, you could download the models manually.

We also provide a frequency lists dataset derived from the pretraining datasets (17.3B tokens) used to pretrain the family of CAMeLBert models.
To obtain the frequency dataset, please fill out [this form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfM84AQx9uFPFYZNsslVxEJmfGz0ObA0WfrEJoKN20HKxy2sg/viewform?usp=sharing).


## Fine-tuning Experiments:

All fine-tuned models can be found [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/15feD46cPcRBybdUUKKrzR9zTxj2QBJ5w?usp=sharing).

## Text Classification:

### Sentiment Analysis:

For the sentiment analysis experiments, we combined four datasets: 1) [ArSAS](http://lrec-conf.org/workshops/lrec2018/W30/pdf/22_W30.pdf); 2) [ASTD](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D15-1299.pdf); 3) [SemEval-2017 4A](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/S17-2088.pdf); 4) [ArSenTD](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1906.01830.pdf).</br>
The models were fine-tuned on ArSenTD and the train splits of ArSAS, ASTD, and SemEval-2017. We then evaluate all the checkpoints on 
a single dev split from ArSAS, ASTD, and SemEval-2017 and pick the best checkpoint to report the results on the test splits of ArSAS, ASTD, and SemEval-2017 repsectively. To run the fine-tuning:

```bash
export DATA_DIR=/path/to/data
export TASK_NAME=arabic_sentiment

python run_text_classification.py \
  --model_type bert \
  --model_name_or_path /path/to/pretrained_model/ \ # Or huggingface model id 
  --task_name $TASK_NAME \
  --do_train \
  --do_eval \
  --eval_all_checkpoints \
  --save_steps 500 \
  --data_dir $DATA_DIR \
  --max_seq_length 128 \
  --per_gpu_train_batch_size 32 \
  --per_gpu_eval_batch_size 32 \
  --learning_rate 3e-5 \
  --num_train_epochs 3.0 \
  --overwrite_output_dir \
  --overwrite_cache \
  --output_dir /path/to/output_dir \
  --seed 12345
```

### Dialect Identification:

For the dialect identification experiments, we fine-tuned the models on four different dialect identification datasets: 1) [MADAR Corpus 26](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/C18-1113.pdf); 2) [MADAR Corpus 6](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/C18-1113.pdf); 3) [MADAR Twitter-5](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W19-4622.pdf); 4) [NADI Country-level](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/2020.wanlp-1.9.pdf). We fine-tuned the models across the four datasets and we pick the best checkpoints on the dev sets to report results on the test sets. To run the fine-tuning:


```bash
export DATA_DIR=/path/to/data
export TASK_NAME=arabic_did_madar_26 # or arabic_did_madar_6, arabic_did_madar_twitter, arabic_did_nadi_country

python run_text_classification.py \
  --model_type bert \
  --model_name_or_path /path/to/pretrained_model/ \ # Or huggingface model id
  --task_name $TASK_NAME \
  --do_train \
  --do_eval \
  --eval_all_checkpoints \
  --save_steps 500 \
  --data_dir $DATA_DIR \
  --max_seq_length 128 \
  --per_gpu_train_batch_size 32 \
  --per_gpu_eval_batch_size 32 \
  --learning_rate 3e-5 \
  --num_train_epochs 10.0 \
  --overwrite_output_dir \
  --overwrite_cache \
  --output_dir /path/to/output_dir \
  --seed 12345
```

### Poetry Classification:

For the poetry classification experiments, we fine-tuned the models on the [APCD](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1905.05700.pdf) dataset. For each model, we pick the best checkpoint based on the dev set to report results on the test set. To run the fine-tuning:

```bash
export DATA_DIR=/path/to/data
export TASK_NAME=arabic_poetry

python run_text_classification.py \
  --model_type bert \
  --model_name_or_path /path/to/pretrained_model/ \ # Or huggingface model id
  --task_name $TASK_NAME \
  --do_train \
  --do_eval \
  --eval_all_checkpoints \
  --save_steps 5000 \
  --data_dir $DATA_DIR \
  --max_seq_length 128 \
  --per_gpu_train_batch_size 32 \
  --per_gpu_eval_batch_size 32 \
  --learning_rate 3e-5 \
  --num_train_epochs 3.0 \
  --overwrite_output_dir \
  --overwrite_cache \
  --output_dir /path/to/output_dir \
  --seed 12345
```

Bash scripts to run text-classification fine-tuning and evaluation can be found in `text-classification/scripts/`.


## Token Classification:

### NER:

For the NER experiments, we used the [ANERCorp](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-540-70939-8_13) dataset and followed the splits defined by [Obeid et al., 2020](https://camel.abudhabi.nyu.edu/anercorp/).
The dataset doesn't have a dev split, so we fine-tune the models on the train split and evaluate the last checkpoint on the test split.
To run the fine-tuning:


```bash
export DATA_DIR=/path/to/data                 # Should contain train/dev/test/labels files
export MAX_LENGTH=512
export BERT_MODEL=/path/to/pretrained_model/  # Or huggingface model id
export OUTPUT_DIR=/path/to/output_dir
export BATCH_SIZE=32
export NUM_EPOCHS=3
export SAVE_STEPS=750
export SEED=12345

 python run_token_classification.py \
  --data_dir $DATA_DIR \
  --labels $DATA_DIR/labels.txt \
  --model_name_or_path $BERT_MODEL \
  --output_dir $OUTPUT_DIR \
  --max_seq_length  $MAX_LENGTH \
  --num_train_epochs $NUM_EPOCHS \
  --per_device_train_batch_size $BATCH_SIZE \
  --save_steps $SAVE_STEPS \
  --seed $SEED \
  --overwrite_output_dir \
  --overwrite_cache \
  --do_train \
  --do_predict
```

### POS Tagging:

For the POS tagging experiments, we fine-tuned the models on three different datasets:<br/>

1. Penn Arabic Treebank ([PATB](https://www.ldc.upenn.edu/sites/www.ldc.upenn.edu/files/nemlar2004-penn-arabic-treebank.pdf)): in MSA and has 32 POS tags
2. Egyptian Arabic Treebank ([ARZATB](https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/LDC2018T23)): in EGY and has 33 POS tags
3. [GUMAR](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/L18-1607.pdf) corpus: in GLF and includes 35 POS tags

We used the same hyperparameters for the 3 datasets and report results on the test sets by using the best checkpoints on the dev sets. To run the fine-tuning:

```bash
export DATA_DIR=/path/to/data                 # Should contain train/dev/test/labels files
export MAX_LENGTH=512
export BERT_MODEL=/path/to/pretrained_model/  # Or huggingface model id
export OUTPUT_DIR=/path/to/output_dir
export BATCH_SIZE=32
export NUM_EPOCHS=10
export SAVE_STEPS=500
export SEED=12345

python run_token_classification.py \
  --data_dir $DATA_DIR \
  --labels $DATA_DIR/labels.txt \
  --model_name_or_path $BERT_MODEL \
  --output_dir $OUTPUT_DIR \
  --max_seq_length  $MAX_LENGTH \
  --num_train_epochs $NUM_EPOCHS \
  --per_device_train_batch_size $BATCH_SIZE \
  --save_steps $SAVE_STEPS \
  --seed $SEED \
  --overwrite_output_dir \
  --overwrite_cache \
  --do_train \
  --do_eval
```

Bash scripts to run token-classification fine-tuning and evaluation can be found in `token-classification/scripts/`.

## Citation:

If you find any of the CAMeLBERT or the fine-tuned models useful in your work, please cite [our paper](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2103.06678.pdf):
```bibtex
@inproceedings{inoue-etal-2021-interplay,
    title = "The Interplay of Variant, Size, and Task Type in {A}rabic Pre-trained Language Models",
    author = "Inoue, Go  and
      Alhafni, Bashar  and
      Baimukan, Nurpeiis  and
      Bouamor, Houda  and
      Habash, Nizar",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the Sixth Arabic Natural Language Processing Workshop",
    month = apr,
    year = "2021",
    address = "Kyiv, Ukraine (Online)",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    abstract = "In this paper, we explore the effects of language variants, data sizes, and fine-tuning task types in Arabic pre-trained language models. To do so, we build three pre-trained language models across three variants of Arabic: Modern Standard Arabic (MSA), dialectal Arabic, and classical Arabic, in addition to a fourth language model which is pre-trained on a mix of the three. We also examine the importance of pre-training data size by building additional models that are pre-trained on a scaled-down set of the MSA variant. We compare our different models to each other, as well as to eight publicly available models by fine-tuning them on five NLP tasks spanning 12 datasets. Our results suggest that the variant proximity of pre-training data to fine-tuning data is more important than the pre-training data size. We exploit this insight in defining an optimized system selection model for the studied tasks.",
}
```
